*it’s important to know: please wait at least half a minute to load the program(even if it shows not responding). User control will be shown on the console but a thing to notice is that turn on particle system may make you dizzy.
This is a scene under the sea with a swimming lantern fish (the yellow color one) and a coral sitting on the seabed. The lantern fish has a light source on its head which is a spot light facing down to the sand plane. The coral and the fish have their shadows on the sand panel. The shadows blend with the sand plane by alpha value of the shadow color. 
To generate the shadow, a different way I did is using light source position in world space instead of light position in eye space. Also I adjusted the w coordinate of the light position to improve their realistic. Like the following line of code:
	mat4 shadow = shadow_matrix(vec4(light_x, light_y, light_z, 0.2), vec4(0, 1.0, 0, 0.0));
The whole scene is surrounded by a sphere with the sea-style texture. The reason I considered not to do a skybox is this scene just showing a little part under the sea but I didn’t disable camera movement so that you can see the whole scene. An extra diffuse color is added to make the light blue which seems like the scene is under the water.
If you press ‘.’, it will turn on particle system. There are two particle objects. One of them is general bubbles going up which make the scene more natural. Another one is an additional creature I want to add in the scene to make the lantern fish look not very lonely(considering taking time to render the scene I didn’t make this as an object to import in the scene). Additionally, when the particle system is turned on, the background will rotate and the tail of the fish will swing which looks like the lantern fish is swimming through running water. 
For plants, the reason I just use texture instead of plant model is the rendering time it takes. The position of the plants is generated randomly by rand().
I used the same camera control as what I did in assignment 1. The camera control is copied from https://learnopengl.com/Getting-started/Camera.
One problem I met is when I use quad to load plant texture, the shape of the quad looks wired which is not like a quad thus it load a wired style plant texture.
 
Another problem I met is particle system. When the particle system is turned on, it makes the position of spot light leave the previous position. This is the reason why I define a button to turn on and turn off. Also after turning off the system, the light position will not change back to the light model position. I still need time to figure out about this.
 
As i talked about, one more problem still needs to figure out is the shadow blended with the plane according to the alpha value of the shader.
Finally, a thing needs to be mentioned is that I made the coral and fish model by myself. A regret is that I didn’t write a program to load the mtl file from blender though I did take much time on this. The images used in the scene are all download from Adobe Stock.
